doc/usage/cmd/bootmeth.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0+:

bootmeth command
================

Synopis
-------

::

    bootmeth list [-a]          - list selected bootmeths (-a for all)
    bootmeth order "[<bm> ...]" - select the order of bootmeths\n"


Description
-----------

The `bootmeth` command is used to manage bootmeths. It can list them and change
the order in which they are used.

See :doc:`../../develop/bootstd` for more information.


.. _bootmeth_order:

bootmeth order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selects which bootmeths to use and the order in which they are invoked. When
scanning bootdevs, each bootmeth is tried in turn to see if it can find a valid
bootflow. You can use this command to adjust the order or even to omit some
boomeths.

The argument is a quoted list of bootmeths to use, by name. If global bootmeths
are included, they must be at the end, otherwise the scanning mechanism will not
work correctly.


bootmeth list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This lists the selected bootmeths, or all of them, if the `-a` flag is used.
The format looks like this:

=====  ===  ==================  =================================
Order  Seq  Name                Description
=====  ===  ==================  =================================
    0    0  distro              Syslinux boot from a block device
    1    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
    2    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
    3    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
 glob    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
=====  ===  ==================  =================================

The fields are as follows:

Order:
    The order in which these bootmeths are invoked for each bootdev. If this
    shows as a hyphen, then the bootmeth is not in the current ordering. If it
    shows as 'glob', then this is a global bootmeth and should be at the end.

Seq:
    The sequence number of the bootmeth, i.e. the normal ordering if none is set

Name:
    Name of the bootmeth

Description:
    A friendly description for the bootmeth


Example
-------

This shows listing bootmeths. All are present and in the normal order::

    => bootmeth list
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        0    0  distro              Syslinux boot from a block device
        1    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
        2    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
        3    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        4    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (5 bootmeths)

Now the order is changed, to include only two of them::

    => bootmeth order "sandbox distro"
    => bootmeth list
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        0    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        1    0  distro              Syslinux boot from a block device
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (2 bootmeths)

The -a flag shows all bootmeths so you can clearly see which ones are used and
which are not::

    => bootmeth list -a
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        1    0  distro              Syslinux boot from a block device
        -    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
        -    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
        0    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        -    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (5 bootmeths)

Commit message:

bootstd: Rename distro and syslinux to extlinux
We use the terms 'distro' to mean extlinux but they are not really the
same. 'Distro' could refer to any method of booting a distribution,
whereas extlinux is a particular method.

Also we sometimes use syslinux, but it is better to use the same term in
all cases.

Rename distro to syslinux and also update bootstd uses of syslinux to use
extlinux instead.

Signed-off-by: Simon Glass <sjg@chromium.org>

doc/usage/cmd/bootmeth.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0+:

bootmeth command
================

Synopis
-------

::

    bootmeth list [-a]          - list selected bootmeths (-a for all)
    bootmeth order "[<bm> ...]" - select the order of bootmeths\n"


Description
-----------

The `bootmeth` command is used to manage bootmeths. It can list them and change
the order in which they are used.

See :doc:`../../develop/bootstd` for more information.


.. _bootmeth_order:

bootmeth order
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selects which bootmeths to use and the order in which they are invoked. When
scanning bootdevs, each bootmeth is tried in turn to see if it can find a valid
bootflow. You can use this command to adjust the order or even to omit some
boomeths.

The argument is a quoted list of bootmeths to use, by name. If global bootmeths
are included, they must be at the end, otherwise the scanning mechanism will not
work correctly.


bootmeth list
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This lists the selected bootmeths, or all of them, if the `-a` flag is used.
The format looks like this:

=====  ===  ==================  =================================
Order  Seq  Name                Description
=====  ===  ==================  =================================
    0    0  extlinunx           Extlinux boot from a block device
    1    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
    2    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
    3    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
 glob    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
=====  ===  ==================  =================================

The fields are as follows:

Order:
    The order in which these bootmeths are invoked for each bootdev. If this
    shows as a hyphen, then the bootmeth is not in the current ordering. If it
    shows as 'glob', then this is a global bootmeth and should be at the end.

Seq:
    The sequence number of the bootmeth, i.e. the normal ordering if none is set

Name:
    Name of the bootmeth

Description:
    A friendly description for the bootmeth


Example
-------

This shows listing bootmeths. All are present and in the normal order::

    => bootmeth list
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        0    0  distro              Extlinux boot from a block device
        1    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
        2    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
        3    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        4    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (5 bootmeths)

Now the order is changed, to include only two of them::

    => bootmeth order "sandbox distro"
    => bootmeth list
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        0    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        1    0  distro              Extlinux boot from a block device
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (2 bootmeths)

The -a flag shows all bootmeths so you can clearly see which ones are used and
which are not::

    => bootmeth list -a
    Order  Seq  Name                Description
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
        1    0  distro              Extlinux boot from a block device
        -    1  efi                 EFI boot from an .efi file
        -    2  pxe                 PXE boot from a network device
        0    3  sandbox             Sandbox boot for testing
        -    4  efi_mgr             EFI bootmgr flow
    -----  ---  ------------------  ------------------
    (5 bootmeths)
