doc/board/siemens/iot2050.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0+
.. sectionauthor:: Jan Kiszka <jan.kiszka@siemens.com>

SIMATIC IOT2050 BASIC and ADVANCED
==================================

The SIMATIC IOT2050 is an open industrial IoT gateway that is using the TI
AM6528 GP (Basic variant) or the AM6548 HS (Advanced variant). The Advanced
variant is prepared for secure boot.

The IOT2050 starts only from OSPI. It loads a Siemens-provided bootloader
called SE-Boot for the MCU domain (R5F cores), then hands over to ATF and
OP-TEE, before booting U-Boot on the A53 cores. This describes how to build all
open artifacts into a flashable image for the OSPI flash. The flash image will
work on both variants.

Dependencies
------------

ATF:    Upstream release 2.4 or newer
OP-TEE: Upstream release 3.10.0 or newer

Binary dependencies can be found in
https://github.com/siemens/meta-iot2050/tree/master/recipes-bsp/u-boot/files/prebuild.
The following binaries from that source need to be present in the build folder:

 - seboot_pg1.bin
 - seboot_pg2.bin

Building
--------

Make sure that CROSS_COMPILE is set appropriately:

.. code-block:: text

 $ export CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-linux-gnu-

ATF:

.. code-block:: text

 $ make PLAT=k3 SPD=opteed K3_USART=1

OP-TEE:

.. code-block:: text

 $ make PLATFORM=k3-am65x CFG_ARM64_core=y CFG_TEE_CORE_LOG_LEVEL=2 CFG_CONSOLE_UART=1 CFG_USER_TA_TARGETS="ta_arm64"

U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 $ export ATF=/path/to/bl31.bin
 $ export TEE=/path/to/tee-pager_v2.bin

 # configure for PG1
 $ make iot2050_pg1_defconfig

 # or configure for PG2
 $ make iot2050_pg2_defconfig

 $ make

Flashing
--------

Via U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 IOT2050> sf probe
 IOT2050> load mmc 0:1 $loadaddr /path/to/flash.bin
 IOT2050> sf update $loadaddr 0x0 $filesize

Via external programmer Dediprog SF100 or SF600:

.. code-block:: text

 $ dpcmd --vcc 2 -v -u flash.bin

Signing (optional)
------------------

To enable verified boot for the firmware artifacts after the Siemens-managed
first-stage loader (seboot_pg*.bin), the following steps need to be taken
before and after the build:

Generate dtsi holding the public key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: text

 tools/key2dtsi.py -c -s key.pem public-key.dtsi

This will be used to embed the public key into U-Boot SPL and main so that each
step can validate signatures of the succeeding one.

Adjust U-Boot configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Enabled at least the following options in U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 CONFIG_SPL_FIT_SIGNATURE=y
 CONFIG_DEVICE_TREE_INCLUDES="/path/to/public-key.dtsi"
 CONFIG_RSA=y

Note that there are more configuration changes needed in order to lock-down
the command line and the boot process of U-Boot for secure scenarios. These are
not in scope here.

Build U-Boot
^^^^^^^^^^^^

See related section above.

Sign flash.bin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the build folder still containing artifacts from step 3, invoke:

.. code-block:: text

 tools/iot2050-sign-fw.sh /path/to/key.pem

Flash signed flash.bin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The signing has happen in-place in flash.bin, thus the flashing procedure
described above.

Commit message:

arm: dts: iot2050: Optionally embed OTP programming data into image
Use external blob otpcmd.bin to replace the 0xff filled OTP programming
command block to create a firmware image that provisions the OTP on
first boot. This otpcmd.bin is generated from the customer keys using
steps described in the meta-iot2050 integration layer for the device.

Based on original patch by Baocheng Su.

Signed-off-by: Jan Kiszka <jan.kiszka@siemens.com>

doc/board/siemens/iot2050.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0+
.. sectionauthor:: Jan Kiszka <jan.kiszka@siemens.com>

SIMATIC IOT2050 BASIC and ADVANCED
==================================

The SIMATIC IOT2050 is an open industrial IoT gateway that is using the TI
AM6528 GP (Basic variant) or the AM6548 HS (Advanced variant). The Advanced
variant is prepared for secure boot.

The IOT2050 starts only from OSPI. It loads a Siemens-provided bootloader
called SE-Boot for the MCU domain (R5F cores), then hands over to ATF and
OP-TEE, before booting U-Boot on the A53 cores. This describes how to build all
open artifacts into a flashable image for the OSPI flash. The flash image will
work on both variants.

Dependencies
------------

ATF:    Upstream release 2.4 or newer
OP-TEE: Upstream release 3.10.0 or newer

Binary dependencies can be found in
https://github.com/siemens/meta-iot2050/tree/master/recipes-bsp/u-boot/files/prebuild.
The following binaries from that source need to be present in the build folder:

 - seboot_pg1.bin
 - seboot_pg2.bin

For building an image containing the OTP key provisioning data, below binary
needs to be present in the build folder:

 - otpcmd.bin

Regarding how to generating this otpcmd.bin, please refer to:
https://github.com/siemens/meta-iot2050/tree/master/recipes-bsp/secure-boot-otp-provisioning/files/make-otpcmd.sh

Building
--------

Make sure that CROSS_COMPILE is set appropriately:

.. code-block:: text

 $ export CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-linux-gnu-

ATF:

.. code-block:: text

 $ make PLAT=k3 SPD=opteed K3_USART=1

OP-TEE:

.. code-block:: text

 $ make PLATFORM=k3-am65x CFG_ARM64_core=y CFG_TEE_CORE_LOG_LEVEL=2 CFG_CONSOLE_UART=1 CFG_USER_TA_TARGETS="ta_arm64"

U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 $ export ATF=/path/to/bl31.bin
 $ export TEE=/path/to/tee-pager_v2.bin

 # configure for PG1
 $ make iot2050_pg1_defconfig

 # or configure for PG2
 $ make iot2050_pg2_defconfig

 $ make

Flashing
--------

Via U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 IOT2050> sf probe
 IOT2050> load mmc 0:1 $loadaddr /path/to/flash.bin
 IOT2050> sf update $loadaddr 0x0 $filesize

Via external programmer Dediprog SF100 or SF600:

.. code-block:: text

 $ dpcmd --vcc 2 -v -u flash.bin

Signing (optional)
------------------

To enable verified boot for the firmware artifacts after the Siemens-managed
first-stage loader (seboot_pg*.bin), the following steps need to be taken
before and after the build:

Generate dtsi holding the public key
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: text

 tools/key2dtsi.py -c -s key.pem public-key.dtsi

This will be used to embed the public key into U-Boot SPL and main so that each
step can validate signatures of the succeeding one.

Adjust U-Boot configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Enabled at least the following options in U-Boot:

.. code-block:: text

 CONFIG_SPL_FIT_SIGNATURE=y
 CONFIG_DEVICE_TREE_INCLUDES="/path/to/public-key.dtsi"
 CONFIG_RSA=y

Note that there are more configuration changes needed in order to lock-down
the command line and the boot process of U-Boot for secure scenarios. These are
not in scope here.

Build U-Boot
^^^^^^^^^^^^

See related section above.

Sign flash.bin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In the build folder still containing artifacts from step 3, invoke:

.. code-block:: text

 tools/iot2050-sign-fw.sh /path/to/key.pem

Flash signed flash.bin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The signing has happen in-place in flash.bin, thus the flashing procedure
described above.
